## Manufacturing at an Inflection Point (DRAFT)
```
Please have a look in teams / files / documents / whitepaper   for current version
```

`insert nice image`


As the 4th Industrial revolution unfolds, opportunities and threats present themselves to the entire manufacturing sector.  Companies that embrace the change through experimentation and evolution will thrive while stagnant companies will struggle. Digitization is at the center of the revolution and connectivity is paramount to digitizing all aspects of the manufacturing value chain.  

Connecting manufacturing sensors and machines to a central datacenter is a project complicated by compound challenges.  Lack of a common approach and framework leads each practitioner to solve the same problem, introducing inefficiencies and forcing the ascension of the same learning curve over and over.  As technology progresses practitioners are forced to continually learn new skills and keep up with a sector that is continually evolving.  Finally, the long renewal cycles of shop floor machines, software and processes introduces gaps in proprietary knowledge as well as a general avoidance of making major institutional changes.  To mitigate these challenges, this paper lays out a framework to think through a connectivity project and addresses each component with specific recommendations and a discussion of attributes to be considered.

Each connectivity challenge will have a range of diverse constituents.  Operational Technology Professionals are responsible for the shop floor technology while Information Technology personnel look after overall data movement and enterprise-wide strategy.  General Managers and Logistics teams are typically aligned at a corporate level, coordinating strategy across a network of plants.  Each of these functions will have roles spanning from operational hand-on to strategic and managerial in nature.  The unique demands of each role will require connectivity solutions to be forward thinking and value accretive while offering practical solutions that can be implemented with minimal incremental investment. The ultimate goal is to transform data into information, information that can be leveraged by the stakeholders to create business value.  Examples include: Optimizing existing businesses (e.g. Improving OEE), building new business models (e.g. – values sharing or new solution-oriented services), business-to-business data exchanges, and strategic partnering opportunities.  To build up information, raw data need to be collected, aggregated across multiple data sources, consolidated and analyzed. Typically data sources include shop floor machines, SCADA-Systems, ERP systems, MES Systems, and DCS systems.  Historically these systems have been proprietary in nature, containing locked down data formats and limiting interoperability.  Going forward Industry 4.0 will necessitate that these silos are broken down, and openness and interoperability will be essential to intelligent systems that are able to persist into the future.  
